README.md, before:

# network_LIF
C code for a generic balanced network of leaky integrate-and-fire neurons, with sparse and random connections and synaptic dynamics. Most of the details about the network model can be found in the article ['Dynamics of Sparsely Connected Networks of Excitatory and Inhibitory Spiking Neurons'](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A%3A1008925309027) by Nicolas Brunel and published in Journal of Computational Neuroscience May 2000, Volume 8, Issue 3, pp 183-208. The only difference with the network model described in the article is that the code incorporates dynamics for synaptic currents.

The code tries to be simple, clean, and readable.

## Dependencies
To compile the code, you will need the [`GNU scientific library`](http://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/) installed in your system. In [`debian-like`](http://www.debian.org) systems you can install the library with
```shell
sudo apt-get install libgsl-dev
```


## Installation and compilation
Just get the code and compile the code with either `make` or [`scons`](http://www.scons.org) in the `network_LIF` folder:
```shell
git clone https://github.com/djmarti/network_LIF
cd network_LIF
make
```

## Running the code and measuring network activity
After compilation you will get an executable file called `simulate_one_trial`. This program 
simulates the activity of the network for 20 seconds and saves in text files different measures of activity. The files generated are:
* The spike activity of the 100 neurons , saved under a file like `spikes_N_10000_mu_24_delay_0p50_T1_0p5_T2_100.dat`. The sample contains excitatory and inhibitory neurons in the same fraction as the overall network: the first _f_ 100 neurons are excitatory (indices _i_=0,...,100 _f_ - 1) and the remaining (1 - _f_) 100 are inhibitory (indices _i_=100 _f_, ..., 100 - 1). The long filename where the spikes are saved contains information about the specific parameters used in the simulation. See [filename suffixes](#suffixes) below for more details. The file contains all the spikes emitted during the simulation, with each line containing the time when a spike was emitted (first column) and the identifier of the neuron that emitted the spike (second column).
* The population activity of the excitatory and inhibitory populations, measured on non-overlapping sliding windows of width 0.5 ms.
* The average spike-train autocorrelation. 
* The autocorrelation of the population activities (excitatory and inhibitory). 


## Specifying parameters
You can specify the values of different network parameters with the command line and a configuration file. The configuration file is called `brunel2000.conf' and sets the default values. The command line options can be used to override the default values without having to edit the config file. 

```
Usage: ./simulate_one_trial [OPTIONS]

Simulate a network of spiking neurons and save spike activity,
population rates, and autocorrelations.

  General settings:
    -c, --config-file=FILE              read configuration parameters from FILE
    -v, --verbose                       be verbose.

  Network parameters:
    -N, --number-of-neurons=INT         set the total number of neurons
    -C, --number-of-connections=INT     set the number of connections per cell
    -f, --fraction-excitatory=REAL      set the fraction of excitatory cells in the whole network
    -J, --synaptic-efficacy=REAL        set the synaptic efficacy of excitatory connections
    -g, --inh-to-exc-weight-ratio=REAL  set the ratio between inhibitory to excitatory efficacies (absolute value)
    -T, --membrane-time-constant=REAL   set the membrane time constant (in ms)
    -r, --refractory-period=REAL        set the refractory period (in ms) 
    -D, --synaptic-delay=REAL           set the synaptic delay (in ms) 
    -t, --synaptic-time-constant=REAL   set the time constant of fast synapses
    -I, --external-current=REAL         set the homogeneous external current (in mV)

  Miscellaneous:
    -h, --help                          display this help and exit
```

You can modify the default values by editing `brunel2000.conf`, which is well commented and contains self-explanatory variable names.


## Suffixes
Most of the datafiles generated in the simulation contain a long suffix that specifies the parameter values used in the simulation.
An example of suffix is `N_10000_mu_24_delay_0p50_T1_0p5_T2_100`, which tells us that the network size (`N`) is 10000, the constant external input
(`mu`) is 24 mV, the delay is 0.5 ms, the short synaptic time scale (`T1`) is 0.5 ms, and the long synaptic time scale (`T2`, if present) is 100 ms. Decimal points are replaced by 'p' to avoid issues with the operating system.

All datafiles also contain a header in the first two lines of the file where the parameters are again specified.


## License
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

Commit message:

Minor editing.
Minor corrections

minor changes

README.md, after:

# network_LIF
C code for a generic balanced network of leaky integrate-and-fire neurons, with sparse and random connections and synaptic dynamics. Most of the details about the network model can be found in the article ['Dynamics of Sparsely Connected Networks of Excitatory and Inhibitory Spiking Neurons'](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A%3A1008925309027) by Nicolas Brunel and published in Journal of Computational Neuroscience May 2000, Volume 8, Issue 3, pp 183-208. The only difference with the model described in that article is that the code incorporates dynamics for synaptic currents.

The code tries to be simple, clean, and readable.

## Dependencies
To compile the code, you will need the [GNU scientific library](http://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/) installed in your system. In [Debian](http://www.debian.org)-like systems you can install the library with
```shell
sudo apt-get install libgsl-dev
```


## Installation and compilation
Just get the code and compile the code with either `make` or [`scons`](http://www.scons.org) in the `network_LIF` folder:
```shell
git clone https://github.com/djmarti/network_LIF
cd network_LIF
make
```

## Running the code and measuring network activity
After compilation you will get an executable file called `simulate_one_trial`. This program 
simulates the activity of the network for 20 seconds and saves in text files different measures of activity. The files generated are:
* The spike activity of the 100 neurons , saved under a file like `spikes_N_10000_mu_24_delay_0p50_T1_0p5_T2_100.dat`. The sample contains excitatory and inhibitory neurons in the same fraction as the overall network: the first _f_ 100 neurons are excitatory (indices _i_=0,...,100 _f_ - 1) and the remaining (1 - _f_) 100 are inhibitory (indices _i_=100 _f_, ..., 100 - 1). The name of the file contains information about the specific parameters used in the simulation. See [filename suffixes](#suffixes) below for more details on how to decode this information. The file contains all the spikes emitted during the simulation, with each line containing the time when a spike was emitted (first column) and the identifier of the neuron that emitted the spike (second column).
* The population activity of the excitatory and inhibitory populations, measured on non-overlapping sliding windows of width 0.5 ms.
* The average spike-train autocorrelation. 
* The autocorrelation of the population activities (excitatory and inhibitory). 


## Specifying parameters
You can specify the values of different network parameters with command line options, as well as by editing a configuration file. The configuration file is called `brunel2000.conf` and sets the default values. The command line options can be used to override the default values without having to edit the config file. 

```
Usage: ./simulate_one_trial [OPTIONS]

Simulate a network of spiking neurons and save spike activity,
population rates, and autocorrelations.

  General settings:
    -c, --config-file=FILE              read configuration parameters from FILE
    -v, --verbose                       be verbose.

  Network parameters:
    -N, --number-of-neurons=INT         set the total number of neurons
    -C, --number-of-connections=INT     set the number of connections per cell
    -f, --fraction-excitatory=REAL      set the fraction of excitatory cells
                                        in the network
    -J, --synaptic-efficacy=REAL        set the synaptic efficacy of excitatory
                                        connections
    -g, --inh-to-exc-weight-ratio=REAL  set the ratio between inhibitory to
                                        excitatory efficacies (absolute value)
    -T, --membrane-time-constant=REAL   set the membrane time constant (in ms)
    -r, --refractory-period=REAL        set the refractory period (in ms) 
    -D, --synaptic-delay=REAL           set the synaptic delay (in ms) 
    -t, --synaptic-time-constant=REAL   set the time constant of fast synapses
    -I, --external-current=REAL         set the homogeneous external current (in mV)

  Miscellaneous:
    -h, --help                          display this help and exit
```

You can modify the default values by editing `brunel2000.conf`, which is well commented and contains self-explanatory variable names.


## Suffixes
Most of the datafiles generated in the simulation contain a long suffix that specifies the parameter values used in the simulation.
An example of suffix is `N_10000_mu_24_delay_0p50_T1_0p5_T2_100`, which tells us that:
* the network size (`N`) is 10000,
* the constant external input (`mu`) is 24 mV,
* the synaptic delay is 0.5 ms,
* the short synaptic time scale (`T1`) is 0.5 ms,
* the long synaptic time scale (`T2`, if present) is 100 ms.

Note that decimal points are replaced by 'p' whenever they occur, to avoid issues with the operating system.

All datafiles also contain a header in the first two lines of the file where the parameters are again specified.


## License
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.
